Well,
welcome to Family Hour of the Yahowah Blog.
We're a little different this evening,
just as a matter of happenstance,
but it's like turning back the clock,
twenty years.
Dr. Jeff, you're here with me.
We have you at home and we can
converse.
We don't have our good buddy,
Captain Kirk,
who was the second to become part of
our family.
Uh, he's, uh, made every effort to, uh,
to join us,
but we are going back and forth with
him where either we can hear him or
he can hear us,
but we have not yet had a anything
reciprocal,
which is what you kind of need to
make this work where he can hear us
and we can hear him.
He may get logged on and we may
be able to make this work going forward.
We hope so.
And, uh,
We know that JB is out on a
family thing.
He's got the time off and they're off,
I believe,
at the zoo enjoying one another's company,
which is a lovely thing to do there
and Dallas and
Kevin,
who is normally the one that gets
everybody connected on this program,
is out because his father-in-law has
passed away and therefore he's doing the
appropriate thing and supporting his
mother and his wife in this time of
their grief.
And so we will not have Kevin.
We may get a Kirk if he can
both listen and talk.
He has tried to come back into the
studio.
We'll just see if there's any way that
that works.
There's Kirk.
Hello.
There it is.
Yes, we can hear we can hear Kirk.
But can you hear us?
Yes.
Oh, my goodness.
So here we are.
What we have here then is the old
timers.
We are the three that all go back
almost twenty years together.
So we'll have a family hour of the
old guys.
And that's a positive thing to do.
One of the things that I wanted to
return to, guys,
since we're here together,
is how I left the last episode here.
We were talking about the conditions in
the Gan Eden and how we all over
time are given this opportunity to learn.
The number one thing that
I came to understand as we were going
through the narrative of Eden this time
was that God was really quite disappointed
in Adam and that he showed no interest
in listening to him.
He showed no interest in working with him.
And he certainly wasn't responsive or
engaged in a way that
God could rely on him.
And so the idea of having Adam in
a relationship with Yahowah outside of the
constraints of that garden just wasn't
going to work.
And God's ultimate idea is not to have
us locked in a garden or even locked
on this planet,
but to expose us to the entire universe
that he's created of two worlds.
trillion galaxies,
each with hundreds of billions of stars.
It's so much more out there that he
wants to share.
It's just that Adam wasn't up to snuff
and he wasn't going to get there.
And so what we find is that God
trying to cultivate a very different kind
of interaction than what he experienced
with Adam in the garden.
And he wants someone who is willing to
learn from him.
Otherwise,
what's the point of having a relationship
and being as smart as God is and
having all this to share if those he's
trying to do this with have no interest
in learning from him and engaging with
him?
And what that took me to is this
whole process of how we have developed in
our understanding over the years.
Because nobody ever develops any character
until they have stumbled,
until life gets to be tough,
until something gets in the way that makes
it hard.
That's how we develop character.
Not that either of you two guys have
ever had a difficult time, right?
I play golf.
You play golf.
Your hobby is golf.
You know all about it.
I played the fifth.
You played the fifth.
Yeah, I know your history.
You've had a few challenges.
And when you overcome a challenge,
it gives you great confidence, doesn't it?
Yes.
Absolutely.
Because you know that life's going to
bring another one.
And when it does,
you're proven that you can be counted on.
You learn from it.
And, you know, Kirk,
I remember back in the day before you
met the lovely Sylvia,
that life wasn't quite as enjoyable as it
is now.
And of course,
right now you're dealing with a health
issue that is zapping your strength,
making it really tough.
But look with your big smile.
So you're able to deal with a rough
blow.
And it's the way life's supposed to be.
One of the problems, I think,
with Adam is that because he was in
a protected and sheltered garden,
there were no challenges.
Plenty of food.
Temperature was perfect.
Company was great.
There were no threats of any kind,
no obstacles whatsoever.
And under those circumstances,
how do you grow?
How do you prove to Yahowah that if
there is a problem that you can get
up and be trusted to grow from it?
And so the whole idea is let's learn.
Let's learn together.
Let's grow together.
Let's listen to what Yahowah has to say.
And over time,
develop a much more interesting
relationship where we at least demonstrate
that we're worth the time and effort
because Adam was not worth the time and
effort.
It's kind of a sad situation,
but nonetheless,
not only wasn't he worth the time and
effort,
there was no chance that he was going
to get there because for us to grow,
we have to listen to Yahowah and he
didn't.
And for us to grow,
develop a relationship that's meaningful,
everybody has to engage and he didn't.
And so one of the things we were
talking about is that this relationship
that we've all had and are developing with
you,
we have grown in what we have come
to know and what we have come to
understand.
And that while you do that,
there are going to be new evidence that
you're going to consider
You're observant of yes testimony.
So you're going to have new evidence that
you're going to consider.
And as you do,
you're going to have the opportunity to
derive more complete understanding from
that evidence.
And I remember that.
if you go back before the time that
we recognized that Dowd was the,
not only the Messiah and son of God,
and therefore there could not have been a
Jesus,
because Dowd is the Messiah and son of
God,
but that Dowd volunteered to fulfill
Pesach, Matzah, and Bikuwrym.
And once you realize that,
it changes your whole mindset and your
appreciation of really everything that's
in God's story.
You know,
Now you're able to see the greater and
lesser luminaries for who they are in the
fourth day of creation.
You see the two trees of lives and
of knowledge for who they are in the
garden.
And you recognize that this is how Yahowah
made it possible for us to extend our
lives and for us to resolve any issue
in our lives by taking the guilt away,
the guilt.
is literally deposited in Sheowl,
never to be seen again.
So we look perfect in God's eyes,
innocent.
And I recall for the longest time not
knowing that because, boy, that was,
I think,
the single greatest discovery we have come
to in all of the twenty-four years we've
been studying.
And it was hidden in plain sight.
The only reason we didn't perceive it
sooner is that it's been covered over by
religious muck.
The most prominent religion in human
history has literally stolen God's
identity and created this myth of Jesus
and piled all of their rubbish right on
top of the truth.
So it's very hard to get to the
point where you say, wait a minute,
there was no Jesus.
He was nothing but a product of identity
theft.
The Messiah and Son of God who fulfilled
Passover through crucifixion
is Dowd David.
He wrote about it.
And that means it was Dowd who took
our guilt into shield.
Once you come to that point, you realize,
you know,
there is no functionality here to ascribe
to the spirit of Yahowah,
the Ruach of Yahowah, covering our guilt,
which is the way that I tried to
explain, well,
how in the world does matzah work?
How are we
How do we appear right before God?
Until you know that Dowd took our guilt
into Sheowl, you need some mechanism.
And my conclusion at the time was, well,
then it's the spirit of Yahowah that covers
us in light and where there is light,
there is no darkness.
But that really doesn't work.
for lots of reasons.
One is God never mentions the,
and there is no place where we're told
that the Spirit fulfilled matzah.
So you're writing her into it.
And I wrote her into the story because,
well, at Matzah,
we're encouraged to approach the Etsah,
which is fire,
but it's written in the feminine form.
And I made too big a deal out
of that and said, well,
it might be a feminine manifestation of
Yahowah's nature that we're supposed to be
approaching,
as opposed to recognizing that
We approach the fire because that's the
transformation.
We get rid of our physical bodies and
they are transformed into light energy so
that our soul is enveloped in light
energy.
And that the spirit actually accompanied
Dowd into Sheowl.
Spirit didn't take our guilt there.
All the purpose of the spirit was to
protect Dowd's nephesh soul while he took
our guilt there.
And once you understand that,
you don't need God to give you something
to cover up your guilt because it's gone.
And that led to the realization that there
is no role for the set-apart spirit and
the fulfillment of matzah,
and it's all through Dowd.
And this is the way we learned.
It's the way once you read the Mizmowr
and come to realize that Dowd volunteered
to fulfill Pesach and Matzah,
you're in an entirely different mindset.
As you mentioned yesterday, Craig,
that once Yap cast his spirit upon Dowd,
his son, it was there to stay.
Stare to stay.
You made it very clear.
The spirit would never leave him.
It would never leave him.
So it had to go with him into
shield to protect him, as you say,
his nephesh.
Right.
So what that means is that when Dowd
was fulfilling Pesach,
and he wrote in his own first person,
my God, my God,
why have you separated from me, Azab?
It is...
He is describing the separation that he is
now experiencing between himself and
Yahowah because he has to go to the
place of separation.
Correct?
And so,
and the very fact that the nephesh soul
stayed with him and went into the place
of separation with Dowd to protect Dowd
there,
it means that the Ruach cannot be Yahowah.
That the Yuat is simply a projection of
Yahowah's strength or one of his attributes
like wisdom or knowledge or courage.
these kinds of things,
but that the Ruach can't actually be
Yahowah because Yahowah can't go to the
place of separation.
So this extrapolation that the neo-pagans
have made and this vicious mother goddess
cult is absurd,
elevating the Ruach to spirit mom because
the Ruach can't actually be Yahowah.
Because the spirit never left Dowd.
Spirit protected Dowd's nephesh and Sheowl.
And therefore,
the spirit is a projection of Yahowah's
protection, strength in that regard.
And we can take this the next step.
There is an entire chapter of Yasha'yah
Isaiah.
devoted to the seven spirits of Yahowah,
including the very spirit of Yahowah.
And we know the spirit came upon Dowd.
We know the spirit came upon Moshe.
Was Moshe God?
No.
Was Dowd God?
No, no.
And yes, he was the influence of God.
Elyown means that he was the influence of
God.
And that's what he's going to be going
forward.
The Choter has seven spirits of Yahowah.
That Choter represents the tree of
knowledge.
Last time I checked, I am not God.
I've got seven spirits of Yahowah operating
in me.
It does not make me God.
No.
Pretty sure that's the case.
Pretty certain of that.
So I can tell you that the spirit
cannot be God because otherwise having
seven applications of the spirit,
including the spirit of Yahowah,
would make me God, and I'm not.
So we just need to view things in
the context of all that God has to
say,
and we're much more likely to form a
correct conclusion regarding these things.
You know,
God even divided the Ruach that he had
given Moshe among the seven elders of
Israel.
And it didn't do him any good.
I can tell you for certain it didn't
make them gods.
I didn't even help him.
Only two of them actually made it into
the Promised Land.
We just have to recognize that the Ruach
is like Yahowah's nephesh.
It's a tool that Yahowah can use to
project himself wherever he would be,
but it's a tiny aspect of what he
is projecting.
It's a tool that he would use.
And once we recognize that,
then we're in a position to refine our
knowledge, and we did so,
explaining how Dowd fulfilled Pisac
Matsah Bikuwrym.
I think it is one of the great
discoveries in all of human history,
because now you understand how vital it
was for these books,
these Yada Yahowah books, to ultimately...
not only introduce Yahowah's name so we
came to know Yahowah,
but also to reintroduce his beloved son,
David, correctly as our savior,
as the one who fulfilled Pesach, Matzah,
and Bikuwrym,
so people can take advantage of it.
And so...
One of the things we were talking about
is that once we realized that,
so many of the other pieces of the
story that God was telling us fell into
place.
You all of a sudden know how all
of the other characters that God has
written into his story intersect and how
they relate to one another and how they
contribute to all that God has to
accomplish.
And I remember that we go back to
December of last year.
We are without our social media manager,
our webmaster, and our publisher.
They all bolted on the same day,
within a week of each other.
and uh and so the publisher was was
really helpful at um highlighting aspects
of these books that and there's thirty
five of them that we could update once
we learned something new and and and then
i had a template for updating them on
the website and immediately updating them
once i dealt with them she would give
me the the you know here's the uh
passage that has the thing that you want
to change, you want to improve,
you want to refine.
Here it is.
And I would do it,
go through all thirty-five books.
It would take a long time to do
this.
But then she would be able to instantly
update them on the website and at Amazon
for printing.
And so we ended up spending a lot
of time.
I bet it's a
third of my time,
maybe even half of my time was updating
the books.
And, you know, that's good.
We kept them, you know, a current tweet.
When, when we learned something new,
we shared it,
but come December with her gone, uh, and,
uh, and at this point saying, Hmm,
so we don't have the webmaster anymore.
Don't have the publisher anymore.
Uh, and.
what's the best,
and the social media person bailed.
So what is the best approach going
forward?
And it was then that Yahowah says,
the best approach going forward is we're
gonna change your approach is what we're
going to do.
And first of all,
I want you to start focusing on that
menorah that's spinning over my left
shoulder here,
the one on the bookshelf right by me
here.
That's my symbol.
And by the way,
you also represent that symbol as does
Doug.
So we're going to go to that.
And there is an easy solution to all
of this.
And he says,
you're going to start talking to my
people.
You've learned what you need to know.
You are the books now.
You want to update something?
We can update it instantly.
Literally, as you think it,
you can update the record.
And there is no more effective way now
to communicate with people than there is
through a blog.
You're going to be a blogger.
I said, sure, yeah, okay, you're right.
I didn't actually say that because I've
learned you don't ever question, yeah,
well, when he wants something.
But my mind was saying, you know,
a vlogger is, you know,
a kid that's still living in mom's
basement.
You don't have old guys that become
vloggers.
what do I know about that?
You know how many posts I had presented
on social media?
At the time, he said,
I want you to be a vlogger.
Zero.
Yeah.
You know, I had written.
I. Thirty five books.
Twenty five thousand pages of material is
pretty good at writing.
And he says, no, it's ridiculous.
The marginal utility of one more book is
very small.
You're already overwhelming people with
that books.
Look at the books beyond on the shelves
around it.
The marginal utility of one more book is
not gonna make a difference,
but you're talking to people will.
And by the way,
I wrote a prophecy about you talking to
people, in fact, a bunch of them.
So I appreciate if you'd honor the
prophecies that I have made.
So you were gonna talk to people and
that way,
It's all instant.
And today the difference between the
spoken and written word has changed
because if you go back even five years
ago, certainly ten years ago,
the only way to have a communication that
had viability over a period of time,
credibility,
that could be communicated in a way that
you could be assured this is what the
parties had stated and that it was an
enduring record of that was writing.
You know,
they always used to say in a contract,
if you've written it at all,
you have written it all.
Because the written word was so much more
credible than was the spoken word.
That's why Yahowah for all of those years
took verbal communications that he had
through his prophets.
And the verbal communication in the moment
is much more powerful because of
inflection and tone and emphasis that you
can convey through the spoken word.
And he said,
I want you to write it down as
I'm speaking it to you.
And
you're losing a huge amount of what God
conveyed the moment you write it down.
But the difference is if it was just
left as the spoken word,
five minutes after you heard what God said
and he went on to the next subject,
you would have about a zero percent
possibility of being able to write it down
all correctly and convey it or convey it
incorrectly.
mouth to ear to another generation.
So the only way to make this work
was to have written communication.
And that's why I started with the Iowa.
I examined his written communication using
the oldest manuscripts,
and I wrote about it in written books.
So there was a written record of these
things.
But something changed with the advent of
Facebook and YouTube and then eventually
X,
where spoken words
now have legs.
Spoken words have all of the durability,
if you will, of the written word.
Boy, if you've spoken it on the internet,
it's there to stay.
It's there to stay.
So it has the same longevity and
credibility.
So now if you were in a court,
if you've spoken it online at all,
you've spoken it all because now the
spoken word is more complete,
more powerful.
than is the written word because of the
inflection and the eye contact and the
gestures and the tone and all of those
sorts of things there is no interpreting
the spoken word like you have to interpret
the written word and it's so much more
expressive but and now it has longevity so
you know we're creating these vlogs you
know i think we've done some seven hundred
of them
already since, you know, he always says,
I want you to become a vlogger.
And we bought the equipment to vlog.
I think we've done some seven hundred of
them.
So we've been active in producing these.
And.
And it is a vastly better way to
communicate because I think you're much
more credible when you do a live stream
like we're doing and you've got the camera
there and you've got us communicating
with one another where you're completely
vulnerable.
You know, somebody can see who you are.
They can hear the tone of your voice.
They can know if you're stuttering all
over yourself,
whether or not you have to take,
have multiple takes or breaks in between
movie,
just turn on the lights and go here.
Here it is.
You better know the material.
Yeah,
and so it's a much more effective way.
And what God realized is that not only
had he foretold this was going to happen
and would the mechanism be available at
the right time for us to do this,
but it would be a much more compelling
way to communicate with his people and a
better way to keep things current.
Now we don't have to go back and
re-edit all those books.
We learn something and we just go forward.
Share it, build upon it.
And what this has done is it's enabled
the pace of what we're learning to expand
exponentially.
I am certain that we have learned ten
times more in this past year than we
did in the twenty-three years that
preceded it.
I'm afraid so.
Yeah.
In fact, I've had several people now say,
you know,
it's hard to keep up because they took
a break from it,
from what we were doing.
You know, life got in the way.
They took a break and they've come back
in after an intermission and you go,
my God, where are we?
It's just so much that has been
discovered.
You know,
it's a lot to recognize that there was
no Jesus because Dowd is the son of
God and the Messiah who fulfilled Pesach
through crucifixion.
That's a lot.
And then, you know, just here recently,
we learned that.
That tree of knowledge in the garden and
the tree of lives happens to be Dowd
and Yada, and one points to the other.
And if it wasn't for the tree of
knowledge now,
no one would know about the tree of
lives and what Dowd did to open the
door to life through Passover.
And then this brings us right back to,
well,
the greater and lesser luminary and the
previous chapter,
chapter one of Bare’syth Genesis and
understanding how they work together as
signs for the Mowedym,
restoring witnesses to the eternal
testimony.
And in case you didn't get it,
both in the eighty ninth mizmowr and I
believe it's the hundred and fourth.
God expressly says that they.
the sun and the moon.
They are,
the dot is essentially the sun and that
the moon never leaves his side.
The moon is always there to support him.
And that in the hundred and fourth,
it's the moon fulfilling Mowed Miqraey.
And that the sun recognizes that Yada is
the moon.
And that they're going to work together to
make all of this happen.
He reinforces and explains his story.
And
That then puts us where we are now,
which is an extraordinary acceleration of
this knowledge.
And just in time,
we have now Leia here for Family Hour.
We have also- And baby Kara.
Vera Kara.
So we have Leia.
And Bookie has already stolen her toy
twice.
Okay.
Well, they don't play nice all the time.
Well, they play.
as uh as dogs and therefore they steal
each other's toys so it it has been
a rapid acceleration of what we've come to
uh to know and i think this is
why yeah i said okay the library is
more than sufficient anybody can read any
one of these books and they're going to
know who Yahowah is what he's offering
What do you expect in your return?
That, if I may, that was also prophesied.
I don't remember the Torah address,
but these are what I was calling the
latter rains.
Before a harvest,
late rains make your crops yield extra
fruit.
Right.
And that is what's happening.
Since we ditched the hangers-ons,
and the branch that was broken away,
we have exponentially learned.
It has been raining down on you,
quite frankly,
and the insights have been extraordinary.
And part of that, too,
is that being the tree of knowledge,
and we've learned that the Choter is not
a messianic symbol at all.
We've known it wasn't messianic,
but the world's still lost in that myth.
The Choter is the tree of knowledge,
and God makes that explicit.
There is overwhelming the evidence that
God has provided that the Choter is the
tree of knowledge.
And it says that that tree is para,
saying that the tree is fruitful.
I have planted a lot of seeds in
my day.
Oh, you have?
And I plant a lot of saplings in
my day.
You know, I have never had a seed
produce fruit and it's first year or
second year or third year.
No,
I've never planted a sapling that was
three or four years old.
That,
that was any good at delivering useful
fruit within a year or two fruit trees
take a while to mature.
In fact,
you've got to really do a lot of
cultivating,
a lot of protecting and nurturing and
husbandry with fruit trees before they are
productive.
And that's the nature of the tree of
knowledge.
Its fruit is very effective today,
but it took a, well, in our case,
it took twenty four years for that.
tree to become as productive as the tree
is now, as fruitful as the tree is.
It began to deliver fruit fairly soon
after it was put in place by Yahowah,
reestablished by Yahowah.
But the fruit has become much more
prolific as a result of God cultivating
this and us taking the time to allow
the
tree to develop and that's where we are.
I say we're learning at a prodigious pace.
Indeed.
You know,
almost every day someone will come into my
office and I'll be working on a
translation,
usually now
we're really directed by Yahowah to where
he wants us to go.
Somebody will say something that is
demeaning or critical or slanderous.
And God says, yeah, that's the,
I knew they were going to say that.
Go there and you'll find the answer you're
looking for.
And so we're doing a lot of that.
And the answers are so exciting that fast
as you share them, you discover them,
you want to share them.
So it is pretty extraordinary in that
regard.
We have
Cara, I think, now is biting rich,
either that or the cables or something of
that nature.
We have an unruly family sometimes.
So quite frankly,
we are growing exponentially.
And along with the...
The new team that we have in place,
it has been this ideal environment for us
to share.
The development of the Yahoo vlog has been
the perfect embodiment of that.
And particularly here over the last six
months,
we grew almost within months to the
maximum number of followers you can have
on Facebook.
We have grown exponentially.
We have many, many YouTube sites.
We're on Rumble and we're on Instagram and
TikTok and so many other places.
And the only one I would say that
remains a challenge,
and we are still probably a hundred times
more
popular there than we were previously
would be X.
And it's mainly because on X,
everything is run through a grok and a
grok does not like anyone that says
anything that's outside of what's popular.
And our message is the antithesis of
popular.
We're criticizing Christianity.
We're criticizing Islam.
We're criticizing progressive Marxists.
We are criticizing the Haredim cult within
Israel.
We're criticizing Magas.
We're criticizing conspiratorialists.
And collectively,
those six groups are essentially... Oh,
you forgot the mother rights.
...are essentially X. And so...
Since you're,
even though you prove your points,
the very fact that you're in opposition to
the popular appeal of X,
Grok does not like that.
So you're never going to succeed there in
an environment that is controlled by AI.
By an algorithm.
This is an unpopular algorithm.
Yeah,
that determines what's right or wrong
based upon its popularity.
All in all, your doubts herald,
but you are manifesting now as an
Elia-esque type of character.
Yes.
If you look at Elia,
he was not very popular.
The politicians of the day hated him,
condemned him,
and the religious establishment was
universally opposed to him.
You know,
if there had been a grok or an
AI back then,
I'm sure they would have been part of
the crowd saying, you know,
you're a troublesome soul and we've taken
a popularity poll and we all think you're
wrong.
Wait till they get a hold of the
eight of us in Jerusalem.
Oh, my.
They're going to love us.
Yeah.
And that's the way God wanted it to
be.
You can tell by everything he did.
For example,
when Adam and Chawah both failed to meet
his expectations, God said, okay,
there's only the three of us here now,
so maybe we can work something out.
Maybe a little compromise here.
Hell no, he booted them both.
No, he absolutely booted them both.
He asked them a couple of questions.
They lied to him.
They shirked responsibility.
They showed exactly who they were and
said, well, then.
Apathetic, pathetic, delusional, confused,
just like most people today.
Yeah.
It is what we experience.
So we re-engage in the story where we
left off last time.
We find that, well, it's a subtle thing,
but in the initial introduction to Kara,
we find it in this next statement.
And Kara, you guys know,
is the basis of Miqrah.
Those are the seven annual invitations to
be called out of this world or to
be even called out of the protective
nature of the garden so that we can
meet with and engage with God,
read and recite his testimony and be
welcomed into his company.
And so in this discussion of God,
Yahowah and life around them, we find Kara.
In fact,
I think we find it twice in this
next statement.
And it says that Adam summoned and met
with, greeting by name,
all of the animals,
birds of the sky and every conscious life
form of the expansive environment.
But there was not found for the man,
Adam,
a helper similar to and right to
for him.
So, you know, after God said, you know,
Adam's interaction with the animals was
not, I guess, very exciting for God.
So, you know,
the best he could do is name them.
But
Evidently didn't engage with and found
nothing there in all of those animals that
was even could be suitable as a companion.
You know,
somebody that he could work with.
He's also suggesting here someone that's
similar like unto Adam.
Yes.
And of all the animals, you know,
dogs are very sweet.
Each animal has its beautiful and awful
characteristics exactly like people.
Mm-hmm.
but a helpmate,
someone that is going to assist and work
with?
Not even a dog does that very well.
Yeah,
but what I think that Yahowah wanted Adam
to deduce is that the difference between
Adam and God was sort of like the
difference between Adam and, let's say,
a dog.
Yes.
And,
but I don't think Adam came to that
conclusion to say that, you know,
if I work with the dog,
perhaps that dog could become really good
company.
I help this dog be more than it
currently is.
And if Adam had made that connection,
he says, oh,
maybe that's what God is suggesting for
me.
That if I work with him and listen
to him,
that I might become more interesting,
that I might become more capable and
therefore a good companion
Just like a trained dog,
a dog that you have nurtured and loved
and taken care of becomes an interesting
companion for us.
Isn't it interesting now that we're
teaching dogs to talk,
but we're still ignorant of God?
Yes, that's true.
And I do think at that moment that
Adam had the capacity to communicate with
these animals.
Yes.
something that we have lost the ability to
do over time.
And so God brought all of the animals,
and this is Kara,
summoned and met with Kara by name.
And therefore he was able to meet with
them in a way that he could communicate
with birds,
which also is an interesting revelation
because it means that what God was trying
to share
was life.
God found life,
the most interesting thing that he had
created, and he wanted to share life.
So he wanted to share his creation,
if you will, with the man,
and the man just wasn't digging it.
There was nothing there that was workable
for the man of all the things that
God created.
And, you know,
it's the opposite of what I think God
was looking for.
I think he was looking for, man,
these animals are spectacular.
I think he was looking for people who
like to binge watch Nat Geo.
Yeah.
Like me.
So, you know, other animals were good,
of course,
but they were not particularly helpful or
supportive.
And they were not perhaps sufficiently
similar to man's.
Therefore they,
This is why God said he created woman
to be right for him,
serving as a counterpart.
And we are most effective and productive
when we work together.
But that takes us also back to the
reason that God introduced man to the
animals,
to find someone to keep company with man.
To learn to value life.
Yeah, well, it was backing away.
When he said it's not good for man
to be alone,
and then he introduced the animals,
the only way that God would say it's
not good for man to be alone is
if God had made the decision at that
point.
I digress.
I think that Adam and Chawah had already
left the garden mentally, psychologically.
It can't be true.
Chawah didn't exist at this point.
So God is saying that he intends to
separate from man.
That's the only reason he would say it's
not good for a man to be alone.
Otherwise, man wouldn't have been alone,
would he?
So God was announcing.
That is such a key point to realize
that when he said that I am,
you know,
it's not good for man to be alone.
It's been there all this time.
And it can't mean anything else,
logically speaking.
And no one has ever made that deduction
previously.
but it is the answer we have to
face to resolve that problem.
God was bored with Adam and he was
going to,
rather than spend more time with Adam,
he was going to withdraw from Adam.
That's why he said,
it's not good for a man to be
alone,
even though he had created man to work
with him,
to be in this relationship with him,
to listen to him and learn from him.
He said,
Not good for man to be alone,
which means God was going to leave him.
And if we want to return to God
in a meaningful way,
we have to not only recognize that God
said that.
Yes.
We must also figure out what it was
about Adam that wasn't satisfying for God.
God had other things to do that were
more interesting to him than talking to
and interacting with man.
Well, I think at this point,
apathetic Adam and speaks her mind, Chawah,
they didn't have anything really
interesting to say.
No.
And I think that Adam's potential,
we're talking about Adam,
the bigger idea of Adam, is there.
It's always been there.
And by showing Adam creation,
it's to help him understand, A,
value life, B,
We want to have a working relationship
because man cannot exist without a working
relationship with the animals around.
We don't grow crops until modern
machinery.
We couldn't do any of that.
Well,
it was essential that man develop a
relationship that was productive with the
animals in and outside of the garden.
Otherwise,
he has no way to engage and to
cultivate and improve crops.
Life in the garden.
And he didn't do that.
All he did is name them.
And he certainly failed Chawah.
Yeah.
Now, well,
there was no Chawah at this point.
So the other part of it that's,
I think,
quite interesting is not only that God
chose to give up on man.
He's going to separate from man.
He made the statement,
it's not good for man to be alone.
which means that it isn't good for us
to be separated from God.
And at this point,
that's what man had in terms of
relationships with God.
And God is announcing,
it's not good for you to be separated
from me.
What have the Jewish people done?
You know,
God chose them and they separated
themselves from him right at the outset.
So God is announcing,
that's not good for you.
You know,
look at the history of Israel and how
horrible it has been and the suffering
they have endured.
Tragic.
And so God is saying real simple right
here, right at the beginning.
This is not good for you to be
alone.
And I'm here for you,
but you've chosen to be alone because
you've chosen not to engage with me.
You've a relationship where both parties
aren't contributing to it.
Well,
Israel's chosen to engage with every party
except Yahowah.
And they don't listen to Yahowah.
That's their problem.
They listen to everybody but Yahowah.
Hence the term Shub.
Yeah, Shub.
She is a whore with many, many lovers.
Yeah, so God's saying, yeah,
I'm not going to return to you until
you return to me.
So returning to God is important because
it's not good for a man to be
alone.
So now this note,
the verb that Yahowah selected to present
the conception and arrival of woman from
man is surprising.
It is nephal.
And you know what nephal means?
It means to fall.
And it's exceedingly telling.
To humble oneself, to be meek.
When you concede, well,
it just means to fall.
you consider what were the people called
outside of the garden when Yahowah said,
I regret that I have created man,
and he decided that he would eliminate
those outside of the garden with a
nesalma.
What were those people called?
Nephilim.
Nephilim, which is the plural of what?
Nephal.
And so the very people that God eliminated
were the fallen.
weren't they?
When God sent the spies, two people from,
well,
somebody from every one of the twelve
tribes into the promised land and ten of
the twelve
came back and they said,
we're humbled by what we saw.
We're scared by what we saw.
There were Nephilim in the land.
Yeah, what did they imagine seeing?
They said there were Nephilim in the land.
Could there have been Nephilim in the
land?
No.
No,
because the Nephilim were eliminated with
the flood.
So they acknowledged their own fallen
state by imagining...
The Nephilim.
By protecting.
And all of those who did,
imagine back that they were frightened of
the Nephilim, which were imaginary.
God says, you're good as dead.
You're not going to go into the promised
land and you're all walking corpses.
So this is a really loaded term.
It is a term that's used throughout the
Torah and prophets and it means to fall.
That's all it means is to fall.
And it means to go, well, by fall,
it means to go from a higher position
to a lower one.
Now,
it can convey becoming inferior through
failure and neglect also.
And particularly insightful in this
regard, the victims of the flood,
as we have just acknowledged, Leah said,
were Nephilim,
which is a derivative of this verb.
It is the plural of this verb.
So it is not...
an auspicious occasion for man or for God.
What we have perceived as beneficial would
lead to the very fall of man,
to his degradation while he slept.
And upon further investigation,
man's decline
was the result of Adam being somewhat a
tardema, a listless, apathetic.
Showing signs of lethargy.
He appears to have shirked some of the
work, if not all of it,
that God intended.
He failed to be diligent.
And isn't this the story of man ever
since?
It is the blasé faire intellectualism that
permeates society today.
What is the reason that nations like
America have huge debt and are so
unproductive?
These people have become dependent,
haven't they?
They want to work.
They feel like they have entitlements.
You know,
everybody was screaming that there's –
forty,
fifty million recipients of food stamps
that weren't getting their food stamps.
Well,
what were they doing to contribute to
society such that society should give them
food stamps?
What makes somebody entitled?
Being dependent?
Being dependent doesn't contribute
anything.
And if you reward failure and you punish
success,
you're not gonna have much success and
you're gonna have a lot of failure.
And this was the conditions that we were
witnessing.
So this next line is riveting and I
am certain we are the first to discuss
it and to point out what actually
happened.
And Yahowah Almighty,
He caused the fall of man for being
somewhat comatose due to a lack of work
and diligence.
Apathetic Adam.
Tardema,
to the point of lethargy and apathy from
random,
from being asleep and somewhat
unconscious.
Sleep at the wheel,
just like most people right now.
Yep.
So it's, yeah.
The ninety nine percent.
That is the ninety nine point nine nine
percent right there.
But it's it's right there.
It's obvious, you know, it is.
Cause the fall.
Now fall means to fall.
The subject of the verb is Yahowah.
The object of the verb is man, Adam.
So if the subject is Yahowah and the
object is man and the action of the
verb is to fall.
And by the way, the hifl, stem.
What is the hippo stem?
The subject causing the object to engage
in the action of the verb.
The subject causes the object to engage in
the action of the verb.
The action of the verb is to fall.
The imperfect, what does that mean?
It's ongoing.
Ongoing.
He caused him to fall and he would
stay fallen for a very, very long time.
We are still dancing that dance.
So, here it's pretty clear.
Subject of the verb is Yahowah.
Object of the verb is man.
The action of the verb is to fall.
And the stem of the verb says that
the subject causes this fall to occur
relative to the object.
How can you interpret that any other way
if you're
paying attention to the words,
then Yahowah Almighty,
he caused the fall of man.
You can.
And I think, Craig,
it's really worth noting and making it
absolutely unequivocal that it was not,
repeat,
was not Challah that caused the fall of
man.
It was Yah himself for the reasons you
just elaborated.
I want to put him in a moment.
Yes,
and once you recognize that it was Yahowah
that caused the fall of man,
now it is incumbent upon us to figure
out why.
And then once we figure out why Yahowah
caused the fall of man,
to ascertain what we can do to rise,
to get back up.
Stop being apathetic and a crappy
listener.
Well,
the first clue would be the word that
follows, Tartamon.
Stop being lethargic.
And so when we're told that Yahowah,
the first thing that Yahowah told us about
his intent with man is that he would
work in the garden.
And lethargy is the antithesis of diligent
work, is it not?
And so there's a clue.
So one of the first things we can
do is engage and be productive with God.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah,
Yabo will turn you into a workaholic.
Well, we are.
We are workaholics.
That is for true.
Isn't it, Rich?
Yep.
Always have been, even before I got here.
Yeah.
It's an INTP thing.
He slept inert and inactive.
Yes, ma'am.
He was unmotivated and sedentary.
There's your second clue.
Call imperfect third-person masculine
seniors.
Speaking of Adam,
he was inert and inactive.
He was unmotivated and sedentary.
Most people sit around watching TV today,
don't they?
Or YouTube.
So wait till you hear what's next if
you study the root of the words.
So he grass-polled, this is Chawah,
so he selected and took,
called imperfect third-person masculine
singular.
One of,
now we always just translate this as ribs.
It's Tesla.
But you know what the actual meaning of
Tesla is?
It means to be lame.
It speaks of lameness.
It's to be limp and lame.
Rather than being upright and walking with
God and having a backbone and showing some
character.
Maybe it's the other half of that floating
rib.
He was lame.
He was listless.
Would you have thought that Tesla,
which every time it's rendered is rib,
but if you look up the actual meaning
of Tesla, it's not actually rib.
Is that the primary initial first?
Meaning of the word, yeah.
Yeah.
Lame.
If you're going to say you're lame,
you'd use the word Tesla.
It's from the verbal root,
to be limp and lame.
Lay a noodle.
God's laying it all out here.
It's just,
how did we all miss it when it's
this obvious?
He is calling Adam a loser.
Yeah.
A loser, yeah.
Lazy and apathetic with a bad attitude and
can't listen or follow directions.
That's a loser.
Where do we get the concept of a
rib from?
Because in the context,
if you misrepresent all of these words,
you go to a rib because that's really
the part of the anatomy that you're going
to come to if you're misrepresenting all
of the words.
You dug your own grave.
That's where you are.
What do you think there, Jeff?
As a chess physician,
I am actually speechless right now.
Yeah, this is what you do.
This is in your wheelhouse, isn't it?
Yeah.
That Yahowah caused the fall of man because
man was listless.
He was lame.
He was inert.
He was inactive.
Then it says he sutured up and cigar.
Well,
we render it sutured and you can get
there.
Its primary meaning is actually to
isolate.
So he closed by shutting and separating
the place beneath and succeeding it.
under it and instead of it.
So he removed that which was listless.
And then he came up with this idea
that I'm going to make a succession of
things such that ultimately it's not going
to be lame and listless.
I'm replacing,
isolating the listlessness and separating
it and coming up with a succession
With a Bashar.
There it is.
So apathetic Adam,
who's limp and asleep at the wheel,
like ninety nine point nine nine nine nine
percent of people today will be replaced.
With a Bashar.
Bashar.
And of course,
Bashar is just simply translated flesh.
But that's not the primary meaning of
Bashar.
No, it's not.
The verbal root of Bashar is to be
a herald.
It's to be a human who is not
afraid to speak out.
Because he's a Gabor.
Yeah.
Are you telling me that you're the
antidote for inertness and listlessness
now?
Yes.
I am not the antidote,
but you're very close.
It's very astute what you just came up
with.
Dowd is the antidote.
Yes.
I'm the one who announces him.
As the Bashar,
I'm the herald of the antidote.
That's what God is saying here.
So through the progression of events...
there would be a herald who would
acknowledge the antidote.
The antidote, the guy who engaged.
The guy who was bold and the guy
who was really smart.
The guy who would listen to God and
communicated what he had learned from God.
The guy who was constantly learning and
constantly acting.
Engaged, bold, courageous.
The guy who fell down and tripped over
his own feet and tongue countless times,
but always got up.
And the guy when it really mattered,
fulfilling Pesach and Matzah,
when he had to be counted on to
do the right thing,
the guy that did it, he did it.
And so the Bashar is the one who
announces.
Everything that Dowd says.
The antidote.
And the antidote is?
Dowd.
So Dowd is the antithesis of Adam.
Correct.
And essentially secondarily removed is.
Right.
That is correct.
There you go.
Okay.
So Dr. Jeff, in your world,
basically he's the pharmacist and the
filler for the prescription.
So isn't that spectacular?
Yeah.
Now we understand that God caused the fall
of man because man was listless and he
came up with a solution that was going
to be announced by a Bashar.
This makes me want to be a tree
hugger.
There we go.
We're all a bunch of tree huggers.
A bunch of hippies.
I can't recall,
and I think this is what you guys,
your reaction is as well, all of us,
ever reading anything from Yahowah this
surprising.
Having Yahowah plainly state that he caused
the fall of man,
explaining why he caused it,
And then explaining how he was going to,
in the ordinary succession of events,
solve that listless problem of man through
a Bashar.
So right now,
this is a podcast on the Ma of
Miqrah.
Absolutely.
There we go.
Understanding,
pondering the implications of all of this.
And it was written in a way so
that if you weren't paying attention to
the words,
if you weren't
No,
if you were reading man's version of it,
you're done.
Yeah,
so if you're reading a translation of it,
they all went in the same direction.
Superficial.
They all wanted to present that Chawah,
which they renamed as Eve,
was the cause of the fall.
And they didn't want to recognize that God
created the fall.
And he created the fall because Adam was
listless.
He wasn't engaged.
He wasn't listening.
He wasn't active.
He wasn't contributing to the
relationship.
And that this would be the announcement of
a Bashar to explain precisely what was
happening here.
And if I may,
I think this is why Adam's being listless
and apathetic and lame,
that he's not teaching his woman anything.
And that's why Yahowah feels sorry for
women today.
But of course,
there wasn't a woman at this point.
There would be, but there still wasn't.
So now what we have is the realization
that Yahowah introduced
Adam, man, for the purpose of working.
And I would like to ask you gentlemen,
since that was the prime objective,
first thing that God mentioned relative to
Adam was he wanted him to make a
contribution to the garden,
make it better.
Can you list for me the ways that
the story explains that Adam made a
contribution, please?
Why don't you begin, Kirk?
My problem is no.
The answer is no, nothing.
Nothing.
I can tell you.
You don't want to play with the dog.
You don't want to ride the horse.
You don't want to pick some fruit.
Right.
Yeah.
Make some jam out of the fruit.
You know, make a fruit salad.
You know, groom the milk, milk the goat.
You know,
shear the sheep and make some fancy
clothes or something.
Do something.
You know,
I can tell you what Adam trained the
dog.
I can tell you what Adam contributed.
He was busy gorging on the tree,
the fruit of the tree.
That's what he was doing.
Or, you know, scramble some eggs.
Chicken lays eggs.
That's pretty clever.
Those things are really edible.
If I put them over a fire,
this is really good.
We can do some really good stuff here.
Nothing.
So he was a lump,
not even on a log.
He was a lump, yeah,
but not on a log.
And so it...
Here we go, we have an explanation.
So while the word is not mentioned here,
its inference lingers.
Our nephesh soul is our consciousness and
it depicts a living organism's ability to
observe and respond to stimuli in the
surrounding environment.
It's the evidence of life and it is
what was being anesthetized.
And what we have here was that
Asher, Asher, Asher.
She is moving the table tremendously,
which is now I'm looking at my notes
and there we are.
We're a little more straight now.
Thank you.
But what we have here is that Adam
wasn't paying attention.
He was given a nephesh soul to observe
and respond to the environment.
He was doing nothing.
He was just napping.
And then he was given a nesama to
think these things through,
to make an intelligent conclusion,
and he wasn't able to do that either.
So man should have been aware,
should have been responsive,
but instead he became apathetic.
So I think the implications are profound
because this astutely depicts the nature
of humanity throughout the ages.
You know,
I look around now and I read posts
on X and Facebook and you just shake
your head and say,
the overwhelming preponderance of people
are just really stupid.
Oh,
particularly the religious and the
political.
I mean, they're just really dumb.
Occasionally,
maybe one out of every fifty posts you
read, you say, well, that's astute.
That person is worth listening to.
That person is worth engaging in
conversation.
But for the most part,
social media is the place where stupid
prevails.
It's just preponderance of people remain
appreciably degraded, tragically unaware,
lacking initiative due to the neglect of
our Nesama.
You know,
think about how stupid you have to be
to promoting the bleeding and tortured
thorn wearing Jesus nailed to a death
stake and say, this is our God.
He's saving you.
And you say, wait a minute.
Your God is a man.
Or how dumb you have to be to
be a Catholic.
You're telling me that your God is so
inept that men can kill him?
You're telling me you think that you're
celebrating your God by showing him being
tortured and you can't get past him being
tortured.
And you think that's a good thing?
Let's suppose your God was real.
Do you think he's going to be thrilled
with you for constantly picturing him
being tortured?
it's just so absurd.
You just say,
how could people be that dumb?
How could people be so dumb to think
that God wants you to annihilate humans
and that the reward for killing a bunch
of people is virgins in paradise?
I mean, well,
you look at these rabbis and the videos
they produce of them celebrating their
religion and you say,
wow stupid it's just stupid for most of
what you're describing craig is uh to call
them dumb ignorant and stupid would be an
upgrade that would be actually a
compliment oh yeah because they're they're
zombies they're they walking leap at the
wheel the walking dead the comatose
apathetic atom so we lack initiative um we
have neglected our nesama conscience
nobody is thinking well very few are
Now,
this is the reason that religion and
politics have prevailed in controlling the
masses.
People are easy to fool because they don't
think.
And it is why it's now or never
for the restoration of the tree of
knowledge,
because we're getting to the point that
there aren't a lot of people that can
read, capitalize on it,
to benefit from it.
And we've reached a point in time where
the majority have lost either the will or
ability to think.
People have lost the desire to read as
well.
Yeah.
Well, that's why we're doing social media.
So beyond this realization that most
humans are neither worth saving nor
capable of being redeemed,
and that's the case,
we're no better than was Adam.
With the inclusion of the hyphal stem and
the imperfect conjugation,
modifying man's in the fall descent,
Yahowah's admitting that he had a hand.
He was the operative force in this result.
He must have seen or experienced something
in Adam that caused him to realize that
as an animal within a protective
environment,
he would never have developed the
initiative or the wherewithal to grow,
to be anything more than a pet,
just a better version of the other life
forms.
Kind of like the effeminate rabbi of
today.
He would need to stub his toes,
so to speak,
to develop character from overcoming
challenges, learning by necessity,
even dying to appreciate the value of
life.
And in that protective garden,
it was never going to happen.
That's why God said it's not good for
man to be alone because he was going
to be alone.
A long, long time.
Why he caused the fall.
It was necessary for man to fall,
for man to be able to get up
and prove that he could be valuable,
that he could contribute to a relationship
with God.
So the realization that God caused the
fall of man by his own admission not
only upends all we have been told to
believe,
it also prompts some initiative in us
I think it should.
Yeah, absolutely.
If we are to appreciate why this would
be so,
we need to take the initiative to figure
out why it was so and then resolve
that problem.
And I think the answer is evident in
this narrative.
Yahowah was bored.
Adam offered nothing of value or interest.
He had no life experiences,
no comparative way to even value the gift
of life.
He had learned very little and had
achieved nothing.
He was just a character that was easily
tempted by Chawah.
He showed no resistance, said nothing,
just followed along.
Went along to get along.
As a pet in a gilded cage,
Adam was insufficiently interesting to be
entertaining.
It's as if we are looking at a
goldfish swimming around in a bowl,
somehow expecting something to change,
like, well,
circling the opposite direction or trying
to jump out.
After a few days,
weeks or months and years of nothing but
an occasional bubble.
Boring.
It got old for God.
And there was nothing in that bowl that
was going to lead to another or a
better result.
Triple L. Like a triple L. Lame lemming.
Yes.
Yep.
The fact that coddled animals are
completely dependent on the one caring for
them makes them a burden.
They do not exercise their muscles or
their brains.
They accomplish and contribute nothing of
value.
They have been
Countless studies, and you know this,
Jeff,
from medical practice that prove these
conclusions and copious examples played
out among those spoiled by their parents
and society.
We must overcome challenges.
We must work.
We must learn to develop character to
progress and to contribute.
You know,
what happens if you take a bunch of
mice and you put them in an environment
where
Everything is comfy.
The temperature is perfect.
They have more food than they could
possibly want.
They have no predators.
They have no challenges of any kind.
Plenty of water, plenty of food,
ideal conditions.
They become weak and they're eaten by the
strong.
They not only become weak,
they gorge themselves to death.
They die.
Yeah.
Craig,
to elaborate on the analogy that you're
giving and the example is in the wild,
you take a lion, a tiger, a leopard,
a cheetah.
If they have offspring and one of them
is injured or impaired,
a decision is made naturally and at times
That parent will actually kill their
offspring for the sake of the others.
It's played out all the time in nature.
Human beings used to do it before the
fall of Rome, actually.
What happens with a lazy lion?
The hyenas will just pick it off.
Now, by the opposite situation,
there have been lots of tests where
they've had mice in an enclosure and they
have changed the temperature to
uncomfortably hot and then uncomfortably
cold.
where food is only available if they solve
challenges.
And they have added predators so that the
mice have to figure out a way to
survive the predators.
And what happens with those mice over time
that are in that challenging environment?
They grow.
They thrive.
They prevail.
Animals, and we're an animal,
we have to flex our muscles.
We have to think,
we have to have a survival mode.
We have to figure out a way to
work, to contribute,
to make our situation better.
And if everything is given to us and
we don't work,
I live on an island where the overwhelming
preponderance of people are on government
support.
And the government support is so lavish on
this island that most people don't work.
And they'll openly tell you that there's
no reason for them to work.
And many of them are grossly overweight
and they do nothing with their lives,
literally nothing.
And what you see is that somebody who
is a dependent, they don't grow.
They don't
We have the highest crime rates per
capita.
You could no more engage in a conversation
that would be meaningful or have a
meaningful life experience with them.
The man, the moon.
They have literally no skills.
No, the workforce is highly incompetent.
You can't hire them.
You can't put them to work.
You can't give them a job.
You can't communicate with them.
Literally,
they've made themselves complete and total
dependents.
Useless.
We have to overcome challenges to develop
character and learn a way to contribute.
It's also obvious that the encounter with
the other animals did not go well.
God was not impressed.
He created the woman to conceive something
that could be far more interesting.
Men who
would have to think and work to survive,
a life form that would have to develop
a backbone and learn to stand on his
own by having fallen only to get back
up and try again.
This would only be possible if there was
a way to reproduce life and someone to
overcome challenges with and to think
through these things outside of the
garden.
Truthfully,
Chawah was not created for Adam in the
garden.
She was created for Adam outside of the
Because they could reproduce and they
could work together with different skill
sets to raise a family.
Yes.
They didn't have babies until out of the
garden.
Yep.
So sure, most men would be bad.
Most would fall and remain that way.
That's why the Nephilim persisted outside
the garden and God regretted having
created man.
But eventually some men and some women
would be worth the effort.
It would just take a long time.
So, six thousand years, go ahead.
You know, Craig,
just to double back on what was said
a moment ago, the term hormetic,
H-O-R-M-E-T-I-C,
is a wonderful creation by Yah in our
bodies physiologically.
It's a stressor.
And on a very basic level,
our physiology is such that when you
you know jump into hot water jump to
cold water exercise make yourself
uncomfortable you will strengthen your
mitochondria and for those of us who can
remember back to microbiology it's the
energy powerhouse of the cell and you will
strengthen your body you will uh attenuate
overcome illnesses but on a very basic
level we were designed for that whole
medic
For stress.
Yes.
And muscles,
if you're going to function as a person,
you have to have muscles.
If your muscles all atrophy,
you won't survive, correct?
How do we strengthen a muscle?
We have to work them and tear them,
don't we?
Yeah.
You're very intuitive and smart in what
you're saying in that the most grim
prognosis for someone,
regardless of their age,
is when they lose lean muscle,
and strength, things such as a grip,
when that begins to go,
that really is a, you know,
it heralds a very poor prognosis.
Yes.
Another great example would be that you
would expect, and it's very often true,
that as a person ages,
their ability to think slows.
But I'm here to tell you that if
you exercise your mind every day,
that your capacity to think and to process
information actually accelerates.
So you can form conclusions and process
information better and faster and more
effectively.
When you grow older,
if you've developed a more comprehensive
base of knowledge,
if your understanding of things has
progressed,
if you're using
it every day.
So minds function by being used and if
they're not used, then it's not so good.
And it's augmented by experience.
Correct.
It is augmented by experience.
And confidence plays a big role in this.
But I would say that the reason that
our understanding of things and our
ability to process things like this and
see it in a way that is obviously
true, irrefutable,
but that no one has ever perceived in
the six thousand years since these events
took place,
is the very fact that we have built
a foundation of knowledge
that is buttressed with understanding.
And the more you know and understand,
the better you're positioned to form even
more accurate and complete and new
conclusions and develop new insights.
This is the whole process of learning that
God was trying to achieve,
but could not achieve with Adam.
We are now living examples of what is
specifically he's trying to achieve.
This is exciting for God.
This is the kind of stuff he says,
yeah, this is the Bashar.
This is what I have been trying to
develop all of this time.
And it's what God has wanted to achieve.
One of the worst aphorisms I think ever
created by man is the saying that
ignorance is bliss.
No, ignorance is deadly.
It's deadly.
Well, actually, Yahowah said,
my people are destroyed because they're
ignorant.
It's in Howsha.
It's Howsha four, six, absolutely, yeah.
Yeah, absolutely.
So, six thousand years later,
there might even be six thousand people
who have developed some value with God by
being ignorant.
Interesting, learning.
But even if we were only six,
that would still be much better than one,
correct?
In fact, in the garden, there were none.
So if we are six now,
that would be better than none.
And if there are sixty,
that's better than six.
And if there are six hundred,
that's better than sixty.
And six thousand would be better still.
But you see,
God doesn't have to have a lot of
people to be satisfied so long as there's
a number of people that are interesting,
that are dependable,
that have some character,
that have some resilience,
that are wanting to make a contribution.
And it's obvious that
God didn't want a pet.
Now,
it should also be obvious that God didn't
want somebody worshiping him because you
can worship a being and be really stupid,
right?
So he wasn't looking to be worshiped and
he wasn't looking for a pet.
He was looking for an explorer,
a companion, right?
Somebody that he could have an
intellectual discussion with.
Somebody who, you know,
it's like with Dowd.
The reason we know Dowd is the antidote.
The one person that God says that he
listened to and responded to was Dowd.
So Dowd was intellectually challenging.
Dowd was... Chokmah?
Yeah,
was willing to work at it and made
contributions such that God said, yeah,
I'm listening to him.
This is what...
God wanted all along.
That's why he chose doubt.
So God wanted an explorer, a companion,
someone to be capable of challenging him,
of questioning him,
of negotiating with him,
of contributing to the relationship with
him,
of having overcome challenges by learning
and growing.
In other words,
rather than somebody that's humble and
meek and, oh, there'll be God up there.
Exactly the opposite.
So confident in their relationship with
God, they would challenge God.
God,
they would wear an ephod and dance in
front of him with nothing else on.
Yes, exactly.
There you go.
It harkens back to the concept in all
of man's religions about the
ridiculousness of raising,
let's raise God up in prayer.
Let's elevate him.
Like a man can do that.
As if.
I mean,
I guess you can if your God's no
bigger than a man.
That is right.
But you can't do that if your God's
a God.
Yeah.
Worship and praise.
Oh, my.
And be humble.
You know,
a listless person is plenty humble.
Yeah.
That's not the answer.
Therefore,
God caused the fall of man so that
one day men would rise, wiser,
better equipped,
more
for the ordeal that lays ahead.
And perhaps this prepares us to better
understand the nature of the Etz tree.
Remember,
it wasn't all that long ago that we
discovered that it is through etzah,
hard work,
and a struggle that is particularly
difficult and challenging,
requiring considerable effort.
even as the process can be mentally
anguishing at times,
that the Etz becomes para productive.
You see,
etzah is a verbal root of Etz.
And it tells you,
it defines how the tree solves this.
Hard work, struggle,
overcoming challenges.
That's actually the definition of Etz and
etza.
If I may.
Yes.
Society and its culturalisms currently
have inoculated people's sense of what it
takes to become resilient.
Yes.
They want to coddle them, protect them.
They want to produce weak people who are
easy to control.
Of course.
Yeah, the more humble and meek people are,
the easier they are to control because
they're not willing to stand up against
the authority.
May I ask something?
Sure.
The human experiment of lording over each
other has gone awry.
Yes, Kirk.
Well,
I would just say in the past few
weeks, you know,
it's come up multiple times where you're
being attacked, we're being attacked,
all of this is about with such a
silly argument because you don't have all
the answers all the time right now.
And it's like, at what point?
I'll just give you a parallel,
which is not good.
As an artist,
you barely can make a few marks and
then you start to develop and then you
figure things out.
I mean,
So that piece of paperweight,
so that piece of paperweight,
I sent you a bunch of pictures on
ink drawings,
and they're really kind of messy.
But you had to build it up,
and it's almost like a sculpture.
You pat it here,
and all of a sudden it takes form.
But you don't actually know how it's going
to come out until you're playing.
And the same thing I've ever done,
I mean, I knew all the fundamentals.
I was taught those about golf,
but it takes a long time to do.
practice and you don't have all the
answers why do they expect to even
intellectually it's the same thing why
does everybody expect that you've got it
all right there and why would god not
want you to work for
Yeah,
it would put you back into this situation.
If God wanted to create a person that
was fully developed,
then they would be just like him.
And that would be boring as all get
out.
And that's not what he did, is it?
No, no.
And so for this particular cult that is
doing this, first of all,
they have to recognize that the basis of
their cult is wrong.
Their claim was that I didn't recognize
enough about the maternal nature of the
Ruach spirit,
and actually I overemphasized it.
So the very complaint they had is the
opposite of what they said.
And then they said that there is a
spirit mom and that they're going to speak
for the spirit mom,
and that's O for two.
Both of those concepts are wrong,
and they haven't come up with a single
insight that has any value.
So here is a group that is wrong
about everything,
including their own inception and their
purpose.
And yet they would be critical of somebody
who has come up with ten thousand profound
insights that no one has perceived
previously and is sharing new insights at
a prodigious pace.
Wouldn't that make them just complete and
utter useless hypocrites?
Yes, absolutely.
Absolutely.
And that's what God is opposed to.
Now,
I'm not complaining that they exist
because that is the whole test that God
is creating because he wants us to
demonstrate that even when the attack
comes from somebody who you previously had
a relationship with,
if you can overcome it,
if you can stay the course,
if you can prove that you can be
relied upon,
even when there is an insider attack,
you're exactly what God is looking for.
I'll tell you,
Craig and Kirk and Leah and Rich,
that if it's good enough for Yah to
evolve from Adam to Dowd,
then it's good enough to have and garner
these insights and not be perfect.
Moreover,
to double back on what I said a
few moments ago,
to use that term hormetic,
thanks to the Mother Goddess cult,
that served as a hormetic for you to
go back to Gan Eden.
For all of us.
Yes.
That's exactly right.
So that was a stressor for you that
has enabled us and helped us to grow.
What would be from a data dump?
The term you use a lot.
Yes.
Yeah.
If God gave Adam or you or me
everything he knew right from the
beginning,
what would be the purpose of having a
relationship?
Where would you go from there?
where would you how would you learn what
would you contribute if you're given
everything at the beginning what would you
be able to contribute how would you ever
demonstrate that you were thoughtful that
you were a good listener that you wanted
to learn and that you wanted to respond
if you started off with everything and
that's just the people not not thinking
it's the uh Adam was not created with
everything obviously and
Adam didn't develop anything.
So therefore, God says, you know,
I'm going to.
Part company and outside of the garden,
we were given this chance to rise after
having fallen and most people didn't.
But eventually.
somebody did his name along came up bashar
yeah and then the bashar came along to
explain that this is what happened in the
garden with Adam and why Adam was not
acceptable to god and why Dowd was and
then what Dowd achieved for us
It's really a powerful story.
And to, you know,
imagine being God and you say, okay,
I've provided all of these clues,
all this information.
It's always been there.
Naphal, for example, has always been there.
And it's always been there that I said,
it's not good for a man to be
alone.
And all of it's there.
And then all of the clues as to
what I wanted from Adam that he didn't
do.
Always been there.
How would you like to be God and
say, wow, so somebody did figure it out.
It was always there.
I knew that man had it in him,
that somebody could figure it out.
And you've got to be thrilled if you're
God, right?
I would think.
Yeah.
And then, oh, by the way,
I put all sorts of obstacles in this
person's path, and they overcame them.
They just stepped right around them,
right over them.
They used the obstacles to grow.
You know, this is,
and who has worked harder?
I mean,
God wanted somebody to work with him.
Good God,
we've done twelve to fourteen hour days
for twenty-four years.
Yeah.
I was so tired I dropped my dinner
tray tonight.
Yes, she did.
Don't worry.
Yeah.
Asher wasn't.
She got a second dinner out.
Leia does not play the five-second rule.
Ew.
There you go.
But we're boys.
Boys do.
We're just different than girls in that
regard.
Yeah,
I've never met a guy that wouldn't play
the five-second rule.
For women that don't know what that means,
if it falls on the floor,
if you pick it up within five seconds,
it's still good to eat.
It's not dirty.
It's totally true.
We're all that way, right?
Women aren't that way.
That's disgusting.
You know,
my wife will have a conniption fit over
a bug that is somewhere in the room
next to her.
And then she cringes when I go over
and squish the bug with my finger so
I can remove it so she can feel
comfortable.
Oh, my God, you touched the bug.
What's wrong with you?
Yes.
It's all good now.
Don't touch me with that hand.
No.
You don't appreciate the crunch?
Oh, God, no.
No.
Other than bugs and creepy crawly things
and that sort of thing, no,
when it comes to that,
I'm very much a girl.
Otherwise, I think like a man.
Now,
one of Yahowah's favorite plants is the
vine.
It produces grapes, correct?
Yes.
Do you know that if you plant a
vineyard in perfect soil,
it gets the perfect amount of rain,
perfect amount of sunshine,
that the grapes that come off that vine
are not sweet, have no flavor.
And it's only when that vine has
struggled,
When, you know, the rain,
there were some dry periods in there and
maybe a little period where it was a
little too wet and the soil was a
little rocky and it really had to work
to produce.
Ah,
those are the sweetest and most delectable
grapes of all.
Imagine that.
Yeah.
So the fact of the matter is that
the ets da'ath,
the tree of knowledge would have to work
for and and.
No kidding.
Do the job.
And the etza da'ath as the Choter now
serves not only Yahowah and mankind,
but in particular, one man, dot,
the tree of lives.
He represents the tree of lives.
And so God now has a worker who
is engaged,
pointing out the value of the one man
who is the antidote for Adam.
And when God said when he chose Adam,
he says, you know, I chose him.
What's the first thing that God said after
he chose Adam?
I chose a doubt.
You remember what it was?
No, he says,
I make decisions on what I want and
how I choose and value people in a
manner that's totally different than the
way that people make those decisions.
So is he now telling you that?
That Dowd is the one whose aptitudes,
attitudes, approach to life,
accomplishments is exactly what God's
looking for.
I would think, yes.
Yeah.
Did Dowd ever fall?
Yes.
Several times.
Did Dowd ever make a mistake?
Yes.
He said,
I have more sins than hair on my
head.
Yep.
So God is not looking for somebody that's
perfect.
No.
Hardly.
God's not looking for somebody that
doesn't make mistakes.
He's looking for somebody that overcomes
them, that gets up once they fall.
Well, in the Gabor...
There is confident.
I know lots of men who are confident.
I know very few that are capable and
competent.
So the two must go together.
And so Dowd was brilliant.
So God obviously likes a thinking man.
Dowd was articulate.
So God evidently likes a talking man.
Dowd, by the way,
was one of the very few people that
would take God on.
They would say, you know,
I'm not happy with this.
This is not working for me.
This is not good.
He would take God on.
He would go right after him.
God would never back down, by the way.
But he worked it out with Dowd because
that's something he was looking for.
He wasn't the only one,
but he was very successful in negotiating
with Yahowah.
Absolutely.
Mostly with Yahowah, he sold what...
Yahowah, what he wanted to do,
which is to serve as the Passover lamb.
And he was very successful at convincing
Yahowah there was the right call.
Of course,
Yahowah knew he was going to make that
call before the universe was created.
But, you know,
there are just so many really interesting
people in Yahowah's realm and particularly
doubt.
I'll mention another interesting person.
I wrote to him a few times.
couple decades back about how why he was
so interested in our book the Jewish book
and now you know well a hundred thousand
hours later and it's obvious that the
Bashar pointing to the tree of lives is
what's really going down here it's true
This is why there's a greater and lesser
luminary in the first chapter of the Torah
and why there is a tree of lives
and knowledge in the second chapter of the
Torah.
And why there are two men standing in
Yahowah's name.
Yep, there you go.
So in our desire to properly process the
possibilities,
please ponder the interpretation of the
proceedings.
So Yahowah Almighty,
he caused the fall of man for being
somewhat comatose due to the lack of work
and diligence.
He slept inert and inactive,
unmotivated and sedentary,
and so he grasped hold of one of
his ribs,
symbolic of that which was limp and lame
from his side.
He sutured up and isolated the place
beneath, and succeeding it,
even replacing it over time,
with the Bashar Hillman Herald.
Pretty profound, isn't it?
And it's an eye opener.
It's hard to even come to grips with
all of that.
that is where we are and that's why
there's the tree of knowledge and why it
points to the tree of lives.
It's why there is a lesser luminary
pointing to the greater luminary.
And, uh,
and it's interesting even with those
luminaries,
one of the things that most people don't
wouldn't process there is that God has
four statements about those luminaries and
they are presented on the fourth day of,
uh, of creation.
And neither are the sun and the moon
because God has Shemesh and Yara as the
words for sun and moon.
He didn't use them.
And he's using Maowr every time, luminary.
And never once used the terms for sun
and moon.
And of course,
the sun and moon had existed long, long,
long,
long before plant life was created and it
was created on the third day.
So he's not talking about creating the sun
and the moon,
not even talking about the sun and the
moon.
that are greater and lesser luminary.
And they would be signs for the Mowedym.
And it's written plural.
Why?
Because they're greater luminary.
He fulfilled Pesach Matzah B'Kurim.
And the lesser luminary is responsible for
Shabuwah and Teruah,
which then makes them both working
together to enable Kipurym.
And those trees are back right where they
belong on Sukkah, working together again.
The
the Mowedym are the greater and lesser
luminary.
They are these trees.
So God said there are signs for the
Mowedym.
And then he went as far as to
say that both of these luminaries,
the mayor, he says they're both Godowl.
They're both Godowl.
Both influential, they're both important.
He just says that one is more important
than the other.
Yeah, because the one who
serves as the firstborn son,
the one who enables the benefits of the
covenant,
the one who is the exemplar of the
family God's trying to achieve,
the man who is the antidote for fallen
man who gets back up and rises
He's more important than the person that
says, oh,
that's the most important guy right there.
Got to be paying attention to him.
That's no David, man.
He's our Messiah.
He's the son of God.
He is our savior.
He is our returning king.
And it even says that he is the
sovereign and he's going to return to the
sovereign.
And it's the lesser luminaries
responsibility to serve him.
But then it doesn't leave the lesser
luminary without responsibility because he
says, in the time of the darkness,
the lesser luminary, he's the leader.
He's the one that's gonna lead my people.
Nobody would know without him.
Yeah, you wouldn't know.
And so it's just, you know,
right there in the first chapter of the
first book of the Torah,
you've got it all laid out.
And then you open the second book of
the Torah and you've got these two trees.
And that's their role.
We're right back to the same exact story.
And the knowledge of what is actually
transpiring here is being brought to you
by the tree of knowledge that finally is
becoming fruitful.
Isn't that beautiful?
I know.
Yeah.
And by the way,
the whole story is all about what rose
out of ha-Adamah.
And such that it can be Parah, fruitful.
And what is the individual that sacrifices
his life on Teruah so that Yisrael might
live?
Adam and Pharaoh.
Whole stories laid out right here for us.
The fact of the matter is Adam was
lethargic.
He lacked the desire for diligence.
It is a fact that should have become
evident because after Yahowah told us that
man's purpose would be to work in the
garden with him,
we're never told of anything Adam actually
did to improve his situation or to make
life more interesting or productive.
He wasn't productive.
Adam was looking or Yahowah was looking for
Parah.
for productive.
And perhaps,
when equating this to the ets da'ath,
I have already invested, what,
twenty-four years of twelve-hour days
developing Yada Yahowah?
Sure, it's been rewarding,
but it's also been challenging,
and we've had to overcome all manner of
obstacles.
Most recent is the name of this series,
overall we've comprehended more about god
learn more about god then really everyone
up to this point combined you know if
you if you look at what um Dowd
wrote in his psalms you could put
everything that Dowd wrote in this one
volume in fact the third volume of uh
and and uh of
of this really just focuses on those
hundred ninth, uh, uh, Ms.
Moore.
And then you look at the, the,
the coming home series and we've got
those, uh, Michelle and his, uh, Ms.
Moore.
If you were to take everything that's in
the Torah, prophets and Psalms,
it's equivalent to about, uh, what?
Twelve hundred pages.
All of it.
Yada, yada.
It's twenty five thousand pages.
gives you a comparison.
So sure, it's been rewarding,
but it's clearly been challenging along
the way, but we've been productive.
We've not only turned to the oldest extant
resources, the Dead Sea Scrolls,
but we've scrubbed every word of the
religiosity by removing the diacritical
markings that were added
thousands of years later by the Masoretes
while exploring every conceivable
connotation.
The reason we were able to deduce this
is the lesson of Hebrew is that verbs,
actionable words,
describe the meaning of nouns.
And so we're able to deduce the meaning
that was intended by not relying on
somebody's religiosity,
but instead by looking at the actionable
nature of the verbs that underlie them.
And this has developed a wealth of
insights, explanations, commentary,
some of which we've just shared in this
program.
Days became weeks, weeks became months,
months became years and years, decades.
And we have never relented.
And you guys have been exceedingly
diligent.
But, you know, think of, you know,
now Rich here and Kevin and Leah.
But, you know,
think about giving up everything that you
had, every hobby, every.
toy that you had, you know,
been able to purchase and become skilled
at operating.
You gave it up.
I gave them all up.
Every, I mean,
I used to play golf too,
not as well as you did,
but golf club in years and years and
years.
Um, you know, I don't own my,
I love to fly.
I don't own an airplane anymore.
I loved being on the water and,
and being able to captain a vessel and
having Leah act as the,
as the first mate,
it was a joy for us to go
off.
and explore these islands,
we don't have a boat anymore.
We do this every day.
We start before the sun rises and we
end way after the sun sets and we
do it every single day.
And that's the kind of diligence I think
God was looking for.
I want somebody that shows that they're
willing to work at it.
And that's what it takes.
You know,
these are translations that I'm doing now
in my spare time.
You know, we do this blog.
That is our primary responsibility.
So these translations that we're talking
about and these insights here,
this was in our spare time.
This was between blogging.
It's a labor beyond love.
It is.
It is, yeah.
Certainly a labor of love.
And, you know,
I'm duly impressed with our king.
I'm duly impressed with his father.
Yeah.
And I'm duly disappointed by their people,
but it's our job to resolve that.
And we're going to.
So to think without the utter foolology of
the neo-pagans at the want to make God
a hermaphrodite at the Mother Goddess
cult,
it is unlikely that we would have returned
to the garden in pursuit of these
insights.
I knew I had to return here because
I knew we had done a program about
a month previously on how Chawah
represented so many,
and we haven't even got to Chawah yet
in this story,
but how Chawah represented so many
interesting,
I knew I had to return to the
garden.
And oh my goodness, I didn't.
Did you expect that this is what we're
gonna discover?
No.
Just like when you went into Numbers,
we weren't expecting what was going to
happen then.
Yeah, when God said,
I want you to go into Numbers twelve
to explain how you're supposed to deal
with this cult when it first arose.
And then in Numbers twelve,
we have a woman who attacks Moshe's wife
just as they began by attacking my wife
and claiming that they too spoke for God.
just as Miriam did, and God says, oh,
hell no, you don't.
Oh, yeah,
and then we had reason to understand the
process of,
is it possible for a prophet to be
wrong?
And so where is the ultimate prophet,
Moshe, right?
Where is Moshe's ultimate mistake, right?
Numbers eleven.
Did you expect to find numbers eleven
where Moshe not only gives up and say,
God, no one can do this job.
And it's obvious you have no respect for
me because you put me in a position
where there was no way to prevail.
How could you be that mean to me?
And if you have any concern over me,
you're going to kill me now.
You think that's right?
No,
he's sitting there yelling at God saying,
you're just being really mean to me
because this is impossible.
These people are impossible.
And so he's the greatest of the prophets
and he was absolutely wrong.
And that's where it took us.
And then we took to his,
it took us to his people and the
spies over this humility thing that the
cult started to promote.
And we found out that the people that
were humble and that were meek were the
ones that God said, you're dead.
I have nothing.
I want nothing to do with you.
And what did that lead us to?
It led us to Numbers fifteen that explains
the process that Yahowah would use to
restore them to an opportunity,
which was through a ram,
a bull and a goat.
The three guys that carry forth the whole
story and how the bull would ultimately
resolve inadvertence,
guilt by omission in the end.
so that the ram could return and how
important Numbers is in explaining God's
process.
And then we have the alcoholic that is
an anorexia and a cutter that decided that
she would be so belligerent towards you,
Rich, so belligerent, or excuse me, Dr.
Jeff,
so belligerent to my wife and belligerent
to you, Rich,
while condemning me and she don't even
know me.
We've never met.
And you realize that her whole line of
attack is specifically answered here
because, Dr. Jeff,
what was her big complaint?
The one time I talked to her on
the phone was when you called me,
because I don't have her number.
I would never have any reason to talk
to her.
The one time I talked to her on
the phone,
was you were in a coffee shop where
she came in to see you.
And in that coffee shop,
she wanted to play religious and say,
you know,
you can't work on the Shabbat because the
two guys that were out picking up sticks
were stoned to death.
So you're clearly wrong on working on the
Shabbat.
Wasn't that her?
That was her major consternation at that
moment,
was the problem with the sticks only.
We're not dealing with sticks.
So we went into Numbers XV to deal
with that,
and there are no sticks in Numbers XV,
are there?
No,
and there's not the word for picking up
either.
What happened is the fellow's uprooting
the trees.
And the trees happen to be of knowledge
and lives, and he was uprooting the trees,
and God says, yeah, that's deadly.
You uproot those trees,
and there is no way back to life.
You need to stone that guy to death.
He is uprooting the trees.
Yeah.
And then, of course,
the religiosity was the same woman had a
whole assortment of Tissot's,
and you find out the Tissot has nothing
to do with a –
interwoven threads that you would wear
outside of a garment,
that the Tissot is actually the flower of
a flax.
And it's supposed to be one inside the
hem of a garment,
so you're the only one that sees it.
And it reminds you of what happened when
the flax blooms, which is Pisach, matzah,
and Bikuwrym.
She is the fruit,
she represents the fruit of the Messianic
and Hebrew Roots movements.
Correct.
Completely lost to religion.
And lashing out at you, me,
and Rich because of her utter frustration
with her life.
I'm not going to mention her name.
She's not worth mentioning.
But this is what we're up against.
And look what we learned when we went
to Yahowah's testimony and how powerful
that was.
And do you think that this woman could...
could say,
thank you for pointing out that I was
wrong.
I appreciate you taking the time to share
this and to help me understand that the
Hebrew roots cult that I gave up
everything in my life to be part of
was wrong.
No,
she quadrupled down and has just been on
a negative spiral
Yeah.
And so then when they they their next
attack on us was that I complained that
I said you can eat any anything you
want.
And I said, no, I didn't say that.
I said, yeah,
it was says that that's quite a difference
between I said it.
You're going to quote me correctly.
What I said is you always says you
can eat anything you want.
And so they condemned me for that.
I had a whole host of people that
said, you know,
I'm a liar and terrible and you ought
to throw away Yada Yahowah because Craig says
you can eat anything you want.
Well, what does Yahowah say?
And Dabarym, didn't he say you, in fact,
didn't he say it like four times over,
you can eat anything you want?
Yeah.
And didn't he say you could eat the
unclean, the clean, it doesn't matter,
you eat anything you want.
It has no effect on you.
There's only one thing you shouldn't do.
What was that?
Did I think about it?
No.
Drink blood.
I want you to pour out the blood
on the ground like it's water.
Why?
Because what you eat only affects your
body.
And your body is meaningless.
The blood affects your soul,
and God actually said so.
The blood is essential for the life of
your soul.
Why?
Because the blood of the Pesach El'Dowd ,
is on that doorway to life that is
essential if your soul is going to live.
And why?
Because that mortal remnant of Yisrael is
able to be purged of their religiosity
because the blood shed by the Adam of
Parah,
who's the bloody red man from the earth.
There's a reason that Yasha'yah tells us
that the man from Edom is bloody red.
He's tired and red.
And why?
Because the blood that is shed is the
remedy for your soul.
So don't screw with the blood.
Because it's for your soul.
And don't worry about what you eat.
Because your body is meaningless.
In all of this.
And yet they want to focus on the
body.
And cover it up.
And everything they turn to.
They were the ones who said that.
Boy this idea of being naked.
That's wrong, wrong, wrong.
If you're promoting nakedness.
Then you're wrong.
Immoral.
And my point was.
Adam and Chawah were naked in the garden.
And they were.
It was all cool with God and they
were comfortable with God when they were
naked in the garden and we're God's
bringing us back to the garden.
Is he not?
Yep.
So if you're not comfortable being exposed
to God, you don't belong in, uh,
in the garden going forward, do you?
So those that are all worried about what
you're wearing,
they're not going to be comfortable in the
garden and God's not going to have them
in the garden.
They've excluded themselves in the garden
by being fixated on what's over their
bodies.
And,
When we learn that,
didn't it take us to the place where
Dowd was,
because they were also yelling at me for
saying that God likes strong,
confident people,
the opposite of what he got with Adam,
and he's not interested in timid and meek.
And they took us to the ultimate place
where you have a man that is naked
and very comfortable and very Gabowrish,
a bold with God and God's presence.
And that was Dowd  in second Samuel six,
where he is parading around naked.
And then there's a woman, his wife,
who shames him and says,
nothing that you claim regarding God is
true.
You're a nobody, you're worthless.
This doesn't belong to you.
Exactly what the mother God is called to
say.
Ah, but Dowd is Kabod.
Dowd is Kabod.
And so there we are,
and we learn all of this fascinating
material about Dowd's interaction with
Obed-Edom,
which explains the man from Edom later and
Yasha'yah.
And we talk about the repositioning of the
Ark of the Covenant and how Yahowah taught
him this lesson.
And then Dowd recognized that if Obed-Edom
was going to take responsibility for this
and bring the Ark of the Covenant into
Jerusalem and get it properly positioned
on the Temple Mount,
and under the tent of the restoring
witness that Dowd can dance and have a
good time.
He can enjoy his relationship with the
Iowa because it's being taken care of.
And rather than saying, well, boy, that...
What wonderful insights, thank you for,
I mean, there's like,
twenty powerful insights that we deduced
from that.
Thank you for sharing all those prophetic
insights with us.
No, no, their little minion went and said,
no, no, no,
it's presented also in Chronicles,
and in Chronicles,
they named the people that were carrying
the Ark,
and they provided a genealogy for
Obed-Edom,
so we're gonna ignore everything.
that you shared as insights,
and we're gonna focus on these details as
if they mattered.
I mean, just unable to learn,
unreceptive to insights.
Gone right back to the Myriam's and the
Chawah and the Meckels, the bitter days.
They chose what was written for a hundred
years post to Psalm six.
Yeah.
And here's God, you know,
over and over again,
using the very text that they cite to
justify their position to expose and
condemn them.
I mean,
here we went through in a previous program
that they cited three things from Yahowah
to say that they have a spiritual mom.
And all three said, no, you don't.
Yeah, it was masculine singular.
And the idea that woman was made in
God's image,
therefore God is both male and female.
No, it doesn't say that.
It says that child was made in man's
image.
Man was made in God's image.
I've told you.
And even the word for image is masculine.
And it says he made them,
he masculine singular,
made him masculine singular in his
masculine singular image,
masculine singular.
Maybe we can get our brother Shannon to
make them T-shirts and hats that say
Masculine Singular.
Or a hat or something.
I can't let you go without telling us
again what Dowd's retort to McCalla was
about.
Oh, yeah.
She's she's saying that, you know,
you were you've disgraced yourself.
You have no significance.
You're meaningless.
You were even meaningless and embarrassing
in front of the crowd.
And all of the people,
you do not represent any of these claims
that you assert with the Yahuwah.
And so, well,
now that you've mentioned the concubines
and also Kabod,
which means significant and weighty and
matter a great deal, impressive,
I want to go now to the concubines
and we'll see if they think that I'm
a Kabod or not.
The great retorts of all time.
And he always responds, you know,
after I'm sure saying, that's my boy.
I'm proud of you, kid.
Nice line.
I'm impressed with that one.
He said, oh, as for Mikel,
she will never be productive.
Never.
Yeah.
I will say that.
Go out, George Carlin,
George Carlin with that one.
Absolutely.
It was Elia before his time.
God picked people that could think that
have a bit of wit about them,
that have some grit, you know,
rather than rolling over and say, well,
I'm sorry you've embarrassed me.
I'm sorry, sweetheart.
What can I do to make it up
to you?
I'm so sorry that you're not impressed
with me.
I feel so bad that you think that
I'm a complete fraud around you.
Let me prove to you that I have
some merit.
No, he just, boom.
Yeah, and Yama went boom right back.
It's the same thing when they approached
Moshe.
God said, boom, no, you don't,
you're wrong.
And so there's a reason that God responds
as he does,
which means we need to learn from him
and respond the same way.
He's looking for someone like Dowd.
He's looking for someone with backbone,
with courage, with confidence, character,
who won't roll over and play dead,
who when kicked gets right back up and
says, oh yeah, you want some of this?
You know,
we don't go out looking for a fight,
but if you're going to
put one in our face,
we're going to respond because that's what
God does.
So, you know,
it was the foolology of the neo-pagans and
the goddess Hermaphrodite akin to Baphomet
that caused all of this.
Without their stupidity,
we would not have learned at the pace
that we're learning.
This is the very idea that God wanted.
I'm going to
You're going to see obstacles thrown in
your path that, you know,
come from places you never would have
thought possible.
And working together,
we're going to turn those obstacles into
something extraordinary,
like for the first time ever,
insights like this from the garden.
And, you know, fellas,
we're only a quarter of the way through.
It gets better.
Just getting warmed up.
Oh, just getting conscious,
getting warmed up that there are so many
profound insights that we're going to
deduce from the garden and we're going to
present them, you know,
over these shows over the, uh,
the next week.
uh not to repudiate any more the mother
goddess cult they're done i mean it's uh
if they have any sense at all any
shame at all any capacity to think and
to learn they're just going to go dark
and go away and if they don't go
dark and go away then all they're doing
is further condemning and embarrassing
themselves so
They are a non-factor.
I don't care how many times they hashtag
my name and try to pretend that their
purpose in life is to copy me,
trying to do what Chawah did,
to contravene the tree of knowledge
without the chokmah to be able to pull
it off,
copying my style and wearing me like a
skin while condemning me.
It doesn't fly anymore.
They're toast.
It's over for them.
But it's not over for us because every
moment now we are learning, growing,
sharing insights that no one had
previously perceived.
And it's only a matter of time before
more and more Israelis say, you know,
there isn't anything the rabbis have said
intelligently about the Torah ever.
They've never had anything intelligent to
say about Chawah,
nor they take the opposite approach to
this whole story in the garden that we
have just done.
They take the opposite approach to Miriam.
They side with Miriam against Moshe.
They say God was wrong.
They have never been able to deduce the
understanding that they were so obnoxious
that Moshe said to God,
I want you to kill me.
And so since the rabbis have never come
up with anything that has any merit,
and now they're hearing these kind of
insights,
you've got to be brain dead to be
an Israeli and not say,
I want to learn more from that tree
of knowledge.
That is obviously somebody that is
absolutely keyed into the mind of God.
And this is the place where we need
to go to learn at this time and
return to Yahowah.
You're here.
Right here.
And I heard one of the most,
I don't know if it was the most
ridiculous or one of the most ridiculous
things I've heard in a long time.
but the miscreants who call themselves the
Satmar rabbinical Jews,
partnering with the Fakistinians,
saying that God wanted the Jews and the
people who practiced the Jewish religion
not to have any land and to be
dispersed throughout,
or else he would have given them the
land.
Therefore, there's no Israel.
Therefore, Israel shouldn't exist.
And this is why we...
you know,
commiserate with the Fakistanians.
And this is why we support the election
of that Mandami character,
the socialist Muslim of New York City.
Because we want Israel taken from the Jews
because God separated the Jews.
Therefore,
he doesn't want them to have Israel.
That's their thinking.
And with that being the case,
then they're just like the conspiracy
cultists of the mother goddess cult,
which is you take something that you
misconstrue out of context and you fail to
consider it in the whole of what God
said.
And
There are countless places where God says,
I'm bringing you back to the land.
You are going to be settled in this
land.
This is your land.
I gave it to you.
I'm going to eliminate all of the foes.
And I'm going to plant you firmly in
this land where you are never going to
have a problem ever again.
And he never gave the land away.
And he only shooed them out of the
land because they were so obnoxious.
And when they stop being obnoxious by
returning to Yahowah,
acknowledging his name,
acknowledging what his son has done for
them, by fulfilling Pesach, Matzah,
and Bikuwrym,
then they're going to be able to return
to the land.
And that's the story that they don't get
because they've taken one thing out of
context that fits their agenda and ignored
everything else,
like a typical conspiracy wacko.
There we have it.
Gentlemen, I've bent your ear.
We've talked about this now for two hours
and fifteen minutes.
That's probably good for our family hour.
Rich,
thank you for making this all possible.
There's Rich there.
We'll look forward to having JB back from
the zoo.
You know, JB,
don't play the part of the monkeys.
They might keep you there.
So you got to be careful.
got to be careful what you do and
what you say.
Uh, and, uh, we'll know that, uh,
Kevin is back from supporting his, uh,
we don't always support his mom and, uh,
his, uh, his wife, but, you know,
he's on full-time support duty and as he
should be during this time of grief,
but we'll get, we'll get, uh, Kevin, uh,
back, uh,
here shortly and we'll be a full cast
again.
And, um,
But, you know,
I think this worked out much better,
actually, this evening.
It's a good show.
Just having the three because we,
and then Leah, as she came in,
we could interact with each other.
in a much more effective way talking about
what are some really profound insights.
These are extraordinary as to figure out
why God caused the fall of man and
what we need to do.
Now it's our responsibility,
what we need to do to make ourselves
interesting and valuable to God so he can
trust us,
so he wants to spend time with us.
And I don't know if there's anything,
fellas,
that's more profoundly important than that
at this time.
You know, and what I haven't shared now,
but.
The reason that Leah mentioned the eight
of us,
which you get the eight of us,
and Sukkah being eight days,
an eight-day celebration,
is that the whole purpose of the sacrifice
of the Adam of Parah,
who is this productive bull,
and purging the people so they can go
back into Eden,
is that we have a thousand years to
take this mortal remnant of Yisrael and to
hone them and shape them and teach them
and engage with them such that they do
make a contribution,
so they do value work,
and so that they learn,
and so that they listen,
and so they respond,
and so that they can show that they
can be relied upon and they're
trustworthy.
And that is...
The whole purpose of us going back to
the garden is now we have the opportunity
to cultivate these people such that they
are worthy of being let off of this
planet after a thousand years of that
experience,
such that they're trustworthy to be let
off this planet and they can go explore
the universe with us.
What a great job.
Yeah, that's our job going forward.
It's a really cool job.
It's a wonderful job.
and uh and i don't i don't much
think that god cares if we're successful
with with uh ten people or a hundred
or a thousand or ten thousand or by
the time they procreate and create new
life and we're really good at teaching and
leading by example that there's a hundred
thousand or a million yeah it's it's with
god he would have been happy with Adam
just then other than a goldfish in a
bowl
off the log yeah and i guess it
doesn't you know that always sets a fairly
low standard for us we just have to
be more interesting than it was Adam
which is a pretty low bar for us
to exceed.
You know,
it's pretty easy to be better than Abraham
too, or Yitschaq, or Jacob.
You know,
there's a pretty low bar that was out
there.
Now, it's a different story.
You know, when you man up and say,
I'm going to fulfill Pesach,
and I'm going to write about the Romans
crucifying me,
and then I'm going to go into hell
carrying everybody's guilt,
and I'm volunteering to do that, that's...
That's an entirely different story.
That's setting the bar really high.
Yeah, really high for that one.
But we don't have to be that good.
We just have to recognize that's what
God's looking for is somebody that is
willing to show some courage and backbone
and be bold and insightful and interesting
and kind.
stand up and learn stuff and share stuff
and engage with them and do marvelous
things together.
That's what he's looking for.
I never thought, before we close,
I never thought that I could see the
whole picture from start to finish with
such clarity as this.
Yes.
The last month has just been,
I know I haven't been doing much in
the last month,
but I'm listening all the time.
I'm going, wow,
and I'm reading this and reading the stuff
you sent me, and I'm going,
that's phenomenal.
You know what the most phenomenal part of
what you just said is?
Huh?
Is that the clarity in terms of counsel
on the entire picture and framing the
issue from beginning to end.
Yes.
That is a derivative.
It's totally based on Etz,
as Etz becomes etza.
And Etz is the Hebrew word for tree.
And as Etsah,
this spiritual manifestation of this tree,
that is the counsel on the entire story.
So the Etsah da'ath,
which is the Choter's manifestation of the
Etz da'ath,
is in fact
the provider of counsel and advice on the
entire story from beginning to end.
That's what the words mean.
When God tells a story and he was
actually able to invent the language that
he used to tell the story,
his metaphors and symbols and words,
they speak volumes, don't they?
There's a reason that he wanted us to
use amplified translations.
Yeah,
and this is one of the great examples
of how the Etz da'ath,
the tree of knowledge,
is then represented through the Choter as
the Etsah da'ath.
And it is the ability to have knowledge
regarding the entire story from beginning
to end.
When I researched that word Etsah,
my head nearly spun around on its axis.
Yes,
and to see it in the story with
the Choter, and then the Choter is,
we're told he is masculine singular,
and that he becomes Parah,
that he is rooted in the ground,
that he is known as a Netzar,
which is an observant branch,
that he is deeply rooted,
and ultimately he becomes Parah,
which means fruitful,
and that's the presentation of the Choter.
Yeah.
You cultivate the seeds and then you sow
the seeds.
Yeah.
The Choter is the tree of knowledge.
He is the embodiment of the tree of
knowledge.
That is the story that I was telling.
And that by itself is one of the
most profound insights because the
prophecy regarding the Choter is one of
the most powerful prophecies anywhere ever
told.
And now we know exactly who the
Choter is.
He is the tree of knowledge.
And we now know what the Adamah Parah
is because the roots are in the Adamah
that bears Parah, fruit.
The whole story is God is the ultimate
storyteller.
He is the ultimate teacher.
All he was looking for is a good
student.
Well done.
Thank you.
uh yeah thank you i mean yes yes
such a pleasure to work for and and
it's amazing too that Yahowah is not a
um a uh a teacher who's doing this
in a manner of I'll teach you the
material and then you know that my job
is done uh Yahowah is a very engaged
teacher
where he is excited by,
he is thrilled by.
His students,
when his student learns and shares,
and then others benefit by what his
student has learned and then they share,
this causes Yahowah to,
not only be pleased and satisfied and
happy that it was possible for someone to
do this,
but he gives all the credit
to the TadCon tree, rather than saying,
yeah, well, I did this.
I was the one who shared all of
this information so that we made it
possible.
No, he's saying, see, look at this tree.
Isn't this marvelous what happens when
somebody does this?
And that's why...
You know, here's God.
He's the creator of the universe.
He's in the first chapter of his story,
and he's talking about these two
luminaries,
and he says they're both great.
They're esteemed.
I'm proud of them both.
It's just the nature of God.
He's so excited and so happy and so
thrilled when we get it.
Yeah.
that he wants to share credit.
I mean,
that tells you what we have in store
when we finally leave this planet and God
gets to share this voyage of discovery
with us throughout the universe,
throughout dimensions four, five, six,
seven, and I think even eight eventually.
God gets to say,
ain't it fun that we're able to do
this together?
And if we actually were to best him
and the design of the platypus,
he's going to be ecstatic for us.
I mean,
he actually would like to be bested.
That's what he's telling you.
Craig, he epitomizes what a father is.
He is the ultimate, ultimate,
ultimate Abba.
Yes.
You're happier as a father when your child
exceeds what you've been able to
accomplish because of everything that
you've offered them and taught them and
given to them.
When a child fails to follow in your
footsteps and take advantage of what you
have, it's a heartache.
But when your child fails,
takes it the next step and goes beyond
what you have established in the family
business,
there's no greater sense of pride.
That's why Yahowah so loves Dowd.
He's the epitome of that.
He was about the family business.
Gentlemen, that includes you too, Wookie.
He's going, that was a long outro.
Wow, that was a long one, Dad.
I'll get up.
Here I am.
I'm coming over to you now.
It's been a pleasure.
Thank you so much for your endurance in
this long program.
But that's what God's looking for.
He's looking for endurance.
And I'm delighted that we're surrounded
now by a family that is in it
for the long haul and is devoted to
the cause.
And I thank you all.
Have a wonderful evening.
Happy Shabbat.
Shabbat Shalom.